**SQL injection via errors** are cases where we can use error messages to extract or infer sensitive data from the database, even in the context of a "blind" injection. The possibilities depend on the database configuration and the types of errors we are able to trigger:
- We can force the application to return a specific error response based on the result of a boolean expression. This can be used in the same way as conditional responses, which we discussed in the [[Exploiting Blind SQL Injection with Conditional Responses|previous section]].
- We can trigger error messages that output the data returned by the query. This effectively makes blind SQL injection vulnerabilities visible.
## Exploiting Blind SQL Injection by Triggering Conditional Errors
Some applications execute SQL queries, but their behavior does not change regardless of whether the query returns any data. The technique in the previous section will not work because injecting different boolean conditions does not cause changes in the application's response.
It is often possible to make the application return a different response depending on whether a SQL error occurs. We can change the query so that it only raises a database error if the condition is true. Very often, an unhandled error thrown by the database causes some change in the application's response, such as an error message. This allows us to infer whether the injected condition is true.

To understand how this works, suppose two requests are sent with different `TrackingId` cookie values:
```SQL
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=2) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
```
These inputs use the `CASE` keyword to test a condition and return different expressions depending on whether the condition is true:
- In the first request, the `CASE` expression returns `'a'`, which does not cause an error.
- In the second request, the expression returns `1/0`, which causes a divide by zero error.
If the error causes a change in the application's HTTP response, we can use this to determine whether the injected condition is true.
With this technique, we can extract data by checking one character at a time:
```SQL
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (username = 'administrator' AND SUBSTRING(password, 1, 1) > 'm') THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END FROM users)='a
```

>**Note**  
>There are several ways to trigger conditional errors, and different techniques work better with different types of databases.