Misconfiguration of the database can sometimes result in verbose error messages. These may contain information that could be useful to an attacker. For example, consider the following error message that occurs after inserting a single quote into the `id` parameter:
```ERROR
Unterminated string literal started at position 52 in SQL SELECT * FROM tracking WHERE id = '''. Expected char
```
Here is the full query that the application built from our data. You can see that in this case we are entering a single-quoted string inside the `WHERE` clause. This makes it easier to construct a valid query that contains a malicious payload. Commenting out the rest of the query will ensure that the extra single quote does not break the syntax.

Sometimes we can trigger a situation where the application generates an error message that contains part of the data returned by the query. This effectively turns an otherwise blind SQL injection vulnerability into a visible one.
We can use the `CAST()` function for this. It allows you to cast one data type to another. For example, imagine you have the following statement in your query:
```SQL
CAST((SELECT example_column FROM example_table) AS int)
```
Often the data we are trying to read is a string. If we try to cast it to an incompatible data type, such as `int`, it can result in an error like:
```ERROR
ERROR: invalid input syntax for type integer: "Example data"
```
This type of query can also be useful if we are unable to use conditional responses due to character limits.