Let's say we have a store that displays products in different categories. When a user clicks on the `Gifts` category, the browser returns a link like this:
```URL
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts
```
The application thus sends a SQL query like this to get a list of these products:
```SQL
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1
```
This query carries:
- all details (`*`)
- from the `products` table
- where the category is `Gifts`
- and `released` is `1`
`released = 1` is used to display only products that are in stock and on sale.
The application does not have protection against SQL injection attacks. This means that an attacker can construct, for example, the following attack:
```URL
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--
```
The application thus sends the following SQL query:
```SQL
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' AND released = 1
```
It is important to note that `--` is a comment indicator in SQL. This means that the rest of the query is interpreted as a comment, effectively removing it. In this example, this means that the query no longer includes `AND released = 1`. As a result, all products are displayed, including those that have not yet been released.
A similar attack can be used to trick an application into displaying all products in any category, including categories it doesn't know about:
```URL
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--
```
SQL Query:
```SQL
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1--' AND released = 1
```
The modified query returns all items where either the `Gifts` category or `1` equals `1`. Since `1=1` is always true, the query returns all items.

>**Important!**
>Be careful when introducing the `OR 1=1` condition into an SQL query. Even if the condition seems harmless in the context in which you are introducing it, it is common for applications to use data from a single query in multiple different queries. If your condition gets into, for example, an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` query, it could result in accidental data loss.