Before the implementation of the `SameSite` mechanism, browsers sent `cookies` in every request to the domain that issued them, even if the request was initiated by an irrelevant third-party website. `SameSite` works by giving browsers and website owners the ability to restrict which, if any, cross-site requests should include specific `cookies`. This can help reduce users' exposure to CSRF attacks, which trick a victim's browser into sending a request that causes a malicious action on a vulnerable website. Since such requests typically require a `cookie` associated with the victim's authenticated session, the attack will fail if the browser does not include one.
All major browsers currently support the following `SameSite` restriction levels:
- Strict
- Lax
- None

Developers can manually configure the restriction level for each cookie they set, giving them greater control over when those cookies are used. To do this, they only need to include the `SameSite` attribute in the `Set-Cookie` response header along with their preferred value:
```Request
Set-Cookie: session=0F8tgdOhi9ynR1M9wa3ODa; SameSite=Strict
```
While this provides some protection against CSRF attacks, neither restriction guarantees complete immunity, as we will demonstrate with specially vulnerable interactive labs later in this section.

> **Note**  
> If the website issuing the cookie does not explicitly set the SameSite attribute, Chrome automatically enforces the Lax restrictions by default. This means that the cookie is only sent in cross-site requests that match certain criteria, even if the developers never configured this behavior. Since this is a new proposed standard, we expect other major browsers to adopt this behavior in the future.

If a cookie is set with the SameSite=Strict attribute, browsers will not send it in any cross-site requests. In simple terms, this means that if the target site for the request is not the same as the site displayed in the browser's address bar, the cookie will not be enabled.
This is recommended when setting cookies that allow the owner to modify data or perform other sensitive actions, such as accessing certain pages only accessible to authenticated users.
While this is the safest option, it may negatively impact the user experience in cases where cross-site functionality is desired.

SameSite restrictions at Lax level mean that browsers will send cookies in cross-site requests, but only if both of the following conditions are met:
- The request uses the GET method.
- The request was the result of high-level user navigation, such as clicking on a link.
This means that `cookie` is not included in, for example, cross-site `POST` requests. Since `POST` requests are typically used to perform actions that modify data or state (at least according to best practices), they are much more likely to be the target of CSRF attacks.

Similarly, `cookie` is not included in background requests, such as those initiated by scripts, `iframes`, or links to images and other resources.

If `cookie` is set with `SameSite=None`, this effectively disables `SameSite` restrictions entirely, regardless of browser. As a result, browsers will send this `cookie` in all requests to the site that issued it, even if they were initiated by completely irrelevant third-party sites.
With the exception of Chrome, this is the default behavior of major browsers if the `SameSite` attribute is not specified when setting the `cookie`.

There are legitimate reasons to disable `SameSite`, such as when the `cookie` is intended to be used in a third-party context and does not provide the owner with access to any sensitive data or functionality. `tracking cookies` are a common example.
If you come across a `cookie` set with `SameSite=None` or without explicit restrictions, it is worth checking whether it has any usefulness. When Chrome first adopted the `Lax` default behavior, it broke a lot of existing web functionality. As a quick workaround, some websites decided to simply disable the `SameSite` restrictions for all `cookies`, including potentially sensitive ones.
When setting a `cookie` with `SameSite=None`, the website must also enable the `Secure` attribute, which ensures that the cookie is only sent in encrypted messages over `HTTPS`. Otherwise, browsers will reject the cookie and it will not be set.
```Request
Set-Cookie: trackingId=0F8tgdOhi9ynR1M9wa3ODa; SameSite=None; Secure
```