## File extension obfuscation
Even the most comprehensive blacklist can potentially be bypassed using classic obfuscation techniques. Let's say the verification code is case-sensitive and doesn't recognize that `exploit.pHp` is actually a `.php` file. If the code that subsequently matches the file extension to the MIME type is not case-sensitive, this mismatch allows you to slip malicious PHP files past the check, which can eventually be executed by the server.

You can also achieve similar results using the following techniques:
* Providing multiple extensions. Depending on the algorithm used to parse the filename, the following file may be interpreted as either a PHP file or a JPG image: `exploit.php.jpg`
* Adding trailing characters. Some components will remove or ignore trailing spaces, periods, etc.: `exploit.php.`
* Using URL encoding (or double URL encoding) for periods, forward slashes, and backslashes. If the value is not decoded when checking the file extension, but is decoded later on the server side, this may also allow you to upload malicious files that would otherwise be blocked: `exploit%2Ephp`
* Adding semicolons or URL-encoded null bytes before the file extension. If the check is written in a high-level language like PHP or Java, but the server processes the file with low-level C/C++ functions, for example, this may cause inconsistencies in what is considered the end of the filename: `exploit.asp;.jpg` or `exploit.asp%00.jpg`
* Using multi-byte Unicode characters that may translate to null bytes and periods after Unicode conversion or normalization. Sequences like `xC0 x2E`, `xC4 xAE`, or `xC0 xAE` can be converted to `x2E` if the filename is parsed as a UTF-8 string but then converted to ASCII characters before being used in a path.

Other protections include removing or replacing dangerous extensions to prevent the file from being executed. If this conversion is not applied recursively, you can position the disallowed string in such a way that removing it will still leave a valid file extension. For example, consider what happens if you remove `.php` from the following filename:
```
exploit.p.phphp
```

This is just a small sample of the many ways file extensions can be obfuscated.